h1. Welcome to BaseApp2

BaseApp2 is a default Ruby on Rails project that kick-starts your next Rails project.

h2. Wishlist

# Admin configurable colour schemes
# Rails 3 Upgrade --see rails3 branch

h2. Quickstart

Ok, before you dive in :-)

These 5 simple steps are the essentials to get you smoothly up and running...

# Create your own config/database.yml (you can copy one of the sample files in there and edit it)
# Edit the config/config.yml file to suit your needs
# Open a shell and run @rake db:migrate@ to create your database and setup the prepared defaults. 
# Start your server with @./script/server@
# Open up "http://localhost:3000":http://localhost:3000 and login with username 'admin' and password 'baseapp'.

If you want to use OpenID then you will need to run the following command:

@ruby script/plugin install open_id_authentication@

h2. Configatron vs. Settings

Previously, site settings were stored in the database. Now, you have two options for storing configuration settings. 

1. Configatron config/config.yml

All default configuration options that are not 'user changeable' should go in config/config.yml. This uses the Configatron gem (frozen in vendor/gems). 

To retrieve the site name you may use 'configatron.site_name' everywhere in your code. 

2. Settings in database

It's still possible to store user changeable settings in the database model Setting. 

Note: As long as there are no Settings in the database, the 'Settings' tab for the administrator is hidden. Once you add a Setting to the database through a migration (or otherwise), the Settings tab will show up. 

h2. Asset Packaging

BaseApp makes use of the asset packager plugin, which compresses all of your javascript and stylesheet files into one file (and link) to speed up load times and in some ways development.

You can view details of the plugin at: http://github.com/sbecker/asset_packager

For quick starting though, all you need to do if you change the files, simply run:

@rake asset:packager:build_all@

h2. Features

* Layout
** Tabs
** Global links
** Optional sidebar
** Notice, warning and error flash messages
** Both a default stylesheet as well as a 'clean' one are included for easy layout development.
* Default dashboard page
* Administration panel where you can:
** Manage users (add, delete, purge, suspend, activate, send new passwords)
** Manage settings 
** Manage site wide timed announcements
** Post-Commit Hooks ready to roll for Campfire, Basecamp, FriendFeed, Twitter and custom URL(s).
* User authentication, with password recovery and login recovery and account activation (by email)
* User Profiles:
** Location, Website, Full name fields by default, easily extendible.
** Gravatar for avatar support
* Very useful Rails plugin available:
** restful_authentication
** acts_as_state_machine
** asset_packager
* Multi-stage deployments according to the D-TAP system (Development, Testing, Acceptance, Production). If you don't want to use, production is the default deployment option. "more info":http://weblog.jamisbuck.org/2007/7/23/capistrano-multistage
* Mobile Ready
** Auto detect mobile users/visitors and display different views.
** Based on the JQTouch framework, making it easy to theme.

h2. Credits

BaseApp2 is developed by "Danny McClelland":http://www.dannyweb.net, based on the BaseApp application.

BaseAPP is developed by "Kabisa ICT":http://kabisa.nl, "Ariejan de Vroom":http://ariejan.net and a whole bunch of "cool contributors":http://github.com/ariejan/baseapp/network. 

BaseApp is released to the public under the MIT license.
